[Source](http://machinedesign.top/content/cotter-joint-design-procedureproblems-and-question-answer)

##### 1. State applications of Cotter Joint .
Ans : Following are the some of the applications of cotter joint. Mainly it is used to connect two rods which are not rotating and which carry <kbd>tensile</kbd> as well as <kbd>compressive load</kbd>.

  1. It is used in bicycle for connecting pedal to sprocket wheel.

  2. It is also used for connecting piston rod and the  cross-head of steam engine.

  3. It is used for connecting piston rod with the tail or pump rod

  4. It is used in Foundation bolts.

  5. The piston rod of a steam engine

##### 2. What is a Cotter ? Why taper is provided on cotter? How much taper is provided?
Ans : Cotter is a flat wedge shaped part which is used to connect two rods which transmit the force/motion but without rotation. Cotter is fitted in the tapered slot and remains in its position by wedge action.

Because of taper,

  1. It is easy to remove the cotter & dismantle the joint

  2. It ensures tightness of the joint in operation & prevents loosening of the parts.

Value of taper on cotter is 1 in 48 to 1 in 24.

##### 3. Why in a cotter joint the cotter is kept weakest?
Ans : In the whole assembly the cotter is the part with least material and easy to replace, hence for this economical and practical reason cotter is kept weakest, so that it can be replaced on failure. It generally fails in shearing or bending.

##### 4. State the advantages of cotter joint.
  1. Easy assembling and dismantling: It is assembled by hammering in the cotter and dis manteled by removing cotter.

  2. Strong grip force: Due to wedge action there is very strong tightening force which prevents loosening mf parts.

  3. Simple to design and manufacture.
